---
layout: post
title: "Gendered Roles since birth"
date: 2020-12-20 18:00:00 +0530
background: '/img/posts/bg-blog.png'
# video: '7xUpSLHWvqQ'
---

Our society has a set of ideas about how we expect men and women to dress, behave and present themselves out in this world. Its not something that has started recently but has been deep rooted in our veins and has been happening since almost the dawn of civilizations. Even though centuries have passed by, technology has so much evolved, scientific ventures are at their peak, but the age old social stigma about gendered roles is still stuck in our mindsets.
### What are gendered roles
Gendered roles in society mean how we’re expected to act, speak, dress, groom, conduct and present ourselves to the world based upon our sex which is assigned to us at the time of birth, and thus, these roles stick with us since the day we are born. For example, girls and women are generally expected to dress in typical feminine ways and be polite, accommodating and nurturing, where as, men are generally expected to be strong, aggressive and bold.  
These are applicable since the day we take the first breath outside in this world. It starts right away from the nursery where we are born, example being, if a girl is born, then the room is decorated with pink color where as its blue if a boy is born. Whether we like it or not, but the society never lets us forget about our gendered roles.  
Thanks to God, I am blessed to be born in a family, where my parents never discriminated or applied these gendered roles *intentionally*, but the society we live in, has always imposed them on us.
### Foundation of gender bias
Girls play with dolls. Boys play with cars.  
Girls admire princesses. Boys admire superheroes.  
Girls should play indoor games, read and draw. Boys should play outdoors.  
Save money for daughter’s marriage. Save money for son’s education.  
Women take care of the children. Men take care of the finances.  
### Did we ever ask ourselves WHY?
Why girls play with dolls?  
Why boys play with cars?  
Why girls admire princesses?  
Why boys admire superheroes?  
Why girls should play indoor games, read and draw?  
Why boys should play outdoors?  
Why save money for daughter’s marriage?  
Why save money for son’s education?  
Why women take care of the children?  
Why men take care of the finances?  
Well the most common statements are “we are supposed to do so” or “this is how it works” or maybe “ this is the conventional way”.
The root of the entire problem is that we are told from the childhood about who we’re supposed to be and what we are supposed to do on the basis of our *sex*.
### Who are these people ?
They could be anyone, they could be our parents, our neighbors, our aunt living next door, our postman, anyone around us. These are not only the people we directly come in contact with, these could be television commercials, content we consume on the internet, anyone, anything that influences our thought process.
### What can we do about it ?
The first and the most important step is to acknowledge that this is a major hindrance of self expression and personal development that is posed by our society. We have to be more sensitive, aware and conscious of what we believe in, what we speak and more importantly, how we influence people around us. There are few minor and basic steps that we can take as community to reduce these biases in our society, some of these include:
- Parents are supposed to provide an environment free from gender bias to their child
- School and teaches play a very vital role in this area. Gender sensitization trainings should be conducted for both teachers and the students 

Gender stereotypes is so deeply roots in us that we need to make conscious and continuous effects to eliminate this stereotype. Lets **“Be the change that you want to see.”**