---
layout: post
title: "My Introduction to Ho'oponopono"
author: Ridhi Sharma
date: 2020-12-17 18:00:00 +0530
background: '/img/posts/bg-blog.png'
order: 2
# video: '7xUpSLHWvqQ'
---

When I was little, my mother suggested to watch a movie **“The Secret“**. A 10 year old was introduced to the world of manifestation. I’ve been practicing gratitude ever since. As a result of which I have attracted so many amazing people and things in my life for which I’m so grateful. Over the time, I have understood that one of the most powerful way of helping is to share true experiences with others. Following so, I would like to share my experience of Ho’oponopono.  
I was introduced to this sacred Hawaiian practice of healing through forgiveness by my mother. She described how the legendary doctor, **Ihaleakala Hew Len** healed an entire ward of mentally ill criminals without meeting even them, all with the power of Ho’oponopono. I was highly influenced and curious to know about this process. To know more about this, I pursued the practitioner's course and it was truly a life changing experience.   

Ho’oponopono is about working on our inside selves. It made me understand that I am a 100% responsible for everything happens in and around my life. This is often the toughest fact to accept. I cleanse myself everyday and it’s so mystical, that since the day I have started practicing it, new opportunities and exciting work came my way. Before this, I was struggling with a transition in my career, but this helped pave my way through it and opened new doors and limitless opportunities for me.  

There are various walks of life where this practice helps. I conduct trainings in areas like *Gender Sensitization*, *Diversity and Inclusion* and *Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace*. All these are very sensitive, crucial and complicated. Most of these topics are subject to personal opinion and views and while conducting these trainings, I often find participants blaming their actions on the circumstances. It is very rare that participants stand up to accept the responsibility of their own actions.  
The most of crucial part of all these trainings is to make participants aware that taking ownership of their behavior is the first step to make a healthy social environment.  

**Cleansing ourselves from the inside, helps us to change the world from the outside.**