---
layout: post
title: "Paradox of Happiness"
author: Ridhi Sharma
date: 2021-09-17 18:00:00 +0530
background: '/img/posts/bg-blog.png'
order: 1
# video: '7xUpSLHWvqQ'
---
Since I work in the area of happiness and spend a lot of time understanding human behaviour, emotions, values and beliefs. The most frequent question people ask me and I ask myself? *What does happiness exactly mean?*

Well! Genuinely, I've tried many times to put it into defined terms. But no piece of text or research or poetry has satisfied me to date. In a way, I'm no better than any other seeker, who's keen to inquire into this subject.

A major cause could be after spending a significant time on this subject of happiness, I'm still curious and passionate about the work I do.

So now is the time to enquire about happiness as not something that I  know but as something that I don't know.

Because “I don’t know” is the starting point of any enquiry. When we realize that we don’t know, we become curious to know.

But yes! There is something which we know. One of those things is that we live in a world, which is weaved in threads of duality.

And what time and modern civilization have managed to do to our minds is that:
We acknowledge fear more than love.We understand hunger more than abundance.We talk more about systems and structures than the real idea of freedom.

Given a chance today you can ask a 7th-grade child to write an essay on "Pollution", which is very easy for him. But he will have a tough time writing about "Clean Air" because he never had a chance to breathe clean air. And again whatever he will manage to write will come from his conceptual understanding and not experience.

And that’s why on a similar note; today we all can describe “Unhappiness” very easily, than actually get the first definition of “What is Happiness?” So why not take this approach to understand what happiness is …..

**What is Unhappiness ?**

It is
- Anger or fear ?
- Irritation or jealousy ?
- Or all the “not so good emotions”?

If you think yes, let us enquire it further.
For example, you are walking on a lonely street in the night and someone come and point something at your back and told you to keep walking. How will you feel? Of course scared. This event ends here because suddenly a group of policemen coming from the other side. Before you turn back, the person disappears.

**Is this unhappiness ?**

I asked this question to many of our participants and answer is one sided “it is not unhappiness”.
Then what it is ?

It is an emotion of fear.
Fear is a negative emotion. So if fear is not unhappiness then can we also say that negative emotion is not unhappiness.
So if above is true then with the same level of surety, can we also say that all positive emotions are not Happiness?
Does that mean laughing and smiling is not Happiness ?

*I want to ask one more question ….*

*The answer to this question does not require any experience or prior knowledge but just little sensibility that we are sure, you already have and that’s why you have read it so far.*

**Laughing, Smiling and all such positive emotions are expression of happiness or happiness in itself?**

What seems more sensible to you? I asked this question to most of our participants and we got unanimous answer. Positive emotions seem to be the expression of happiness than the happiness in itself. It is also true for negative emotions that are an expression of unhappiness.

But our expression of happiness seems to vary in degree. Sometimes it’s high and sometimes it’s low. Sometimes, it comes for a very brief period of time and sometimes, it stay little longer. And I guess there is something that sustain forever, no matter what happens on the outer world.

Sounds too good be true but let us not reject this idea or accept this idea. Keep let’s keep our enquiry open...
