---
layout: post
title: "What is compassion?"
author: Ridhi Sharma
date: 2021-10-09 18:00:00 +0530
background: '/img/posts/bg-blog.png'
order: 0
# video: '7xUpSLHWvqQ'
---

Developing compassion can be a way of bringing our emotions into a helpful balance that increases our sense of well-being. So we need to think about what compassion is because this is what's going to help us balance our systems and also stimulate that soothing system we mentioned above. Now, compassion can be defined in many ways. For example, the Dalai Lama, who is the head of Tibetan Buddhism, defines it as a sensitivity to the suffering of self and others with a deep wish and commitment to relieve the suffering. One way we can think about compassion (*and there are various ways*) is to see that it is made up of different aspects of our minds. I distinguish between attributes and skills.

**The attributes and qualities of compassion**

1. Quality of compassion involve deciding to try to be compassionate. In other words, we are motivated to (want to) have a go at becoming more compassionate, to see this as desirable. We can recognise that the compassionate self is a self-worth ‘feeding’ and working to develop.

2. We make an effort to train our minds to become sensitive to our feelings and thoughts. We also need to become sensitive to our needs. It's difficult to be self-compassionate if we are completely insensitive to our pain, upset, wants or needs. So we learn to notice our thoughts and feelings as they arise. However, sensitivity does not mean we just react to things. For example, if criticism upsets us we might say we’re ‘sensitive to criticism’ but we mean we are ‘vulnerable to reacting in a certain way’. To be sensitive means ‘openness and ability to notice and attend in certain ways.

3. Compassion requires us to be emotionally open to our and others’ suffering. This means that we are emotionally touched, moved and sympathetic to suffering. Sympathy is an emotional reaction to our and other people’s emotions and states – it is that immediate wince if we see someone fall over heavily or cut themselves. Sympathy can also operate when we are moved and take joy from the flourishing and well-being of others.

4. We can only be truly open to feel if we can tolerate them. We have a variety of feelings, sometimes sad, angry or anxious and sometimes joyful. However, sometimes we are critical of our feelings, or try to run away from them, hide from or suppress them, but when we are compassionate we can learn to be open, tolerant, accepting of and kind to our feelings. So a key aspect of compassion is learning how to tolerate and come to terms with, become familiar with, and less frightened of, our feelings. This doesn't mean, of course, that we don't wish to change our feelings for things, for other people or even ourselves. Indeed, we may well do, but we are unlikely to do that through criticism, running away or suppressing our feelings; rather, we have to face them openly and kindly. We can also find that when we can face our feelings we can be more reflective - and this helps us develop and show empathy.

5. This one is called empathy and this is about how we come to understand and think about our feelings and our thoughts. We become open-hearted, curious, explorative and wanting to know why we feel what we feel or why we think what we think so that things can make sense to us. When we have empathy for others we make an effort to think about things from their point of view, to try to understand that they may think and feel differently from us. In showing empathy we have to do some work. For example, if somebody hurts you but you realise that they were under enormous stress then you don’t take it personally and you forgive them: you are showing empathy.

6. The most important attribute is of non-condemning and non-judging. The distressed mind, for example, can be filled with condemning and critical thoughts of ourselves or others. Giving this up is linked to becoming kind and mindful; we become more aware of thoughts and feelings but from an observational point of view. We don't judge them, nor try to suppress them or push them out of our minds, avoid or run away from them. Rather, we learn to notice but not act on our feelings.

Remember these abilities can be developed in small stages, step by step. All of these are engaged with feelings of warmth and a genuine desire to relieve suffering and increase our growth and flourishing.

Once we start operating from compassion in any circumstance the outcome changes for good. Compassion is immensely goal-oriented. As it’s said, **“we cannot control what happens to us but we can control how to react”**. 
We experience power when we are compassionate. Lets decide to incorporate compassion in our day to day life.
